---
layout: blogpost
title:  "Revision"
date:   2014-04-13
permalink: /blog/revision/
header: "/img/blog/revision.jpg"
headercredit: "https://flic.kr/p/2smj3"
headercredittext: "Photo from Flickr/CC-BY-SA-2.0"
tags:
- blog
---

It's that time of the year again: exam season. Full of stress and panic, followed by a sigh of relief.

I've curated a list of revision techniques and tips to try - some of them may not work for you:

## Making Notes

Read through your notes, and jot down key points and ideas while you read. This technique will keep you active and force you to concentrate, making sure that you take in information.

## Highlighting

Go through your notes, highlighting important parts. This will make your notes nicer to look at and show you to see key points at a glance.

## Mind Maps

Does a topic contain a lot of information? A mind map will help you to visualise all of a topic’s content.

## Post-it Notes

Forgetting important facts? Write them on post-it notes and place them where you'll often see them.

## Drawing Diagrams and Pictures

This is best for visualising ideas.

## Flashcards

Useful for quick questions and answers and you can get friends or family to test you.

## Posters

Similar to post-it notes, except larger for more information.

## Past Exam Papers

Test your knowledge of the course. This will help you to understand what the type of questions will be asked and what the examiners are looking for in your answers. Both self marking and peer marking are useful.

## Take Away Distractions

As hard as it is, this is vital. Without distractions, it is easier to stay on task and concentrate. Turn off your phone. If you don't need your computer, turn it off. Play some music if it helps, preferably a playlist chosen before you start working. Tell your family and friends to not distract you.

## Take Regular Breaks

If you spend too long revising without taking breaks, you will start to lose track and everything becomes a distraction. Take short, regular breaks. When your concentration starts to go, take a break.

## Set a Task

Set a task for you to complete: are you going to answer some questions or finish making notes on a topic? Don't base your revision on time - how will you know if you've achieved anything?

## Revision Timetable

Prefer to organise your time more effectively for revision? Create a revision timetable (getrevising.co.uk has a useful [revision timetable generator](https://getrevising.co.uk/planner)).

## Other Resources

Don't just use your own notes, use revision guides and textbooks - there may be something important that you've missed!

## Not Sinking In?

Try a different technique.

## Start Now

The best advice to give is to start now, as you will feel more confident for your exams than if you start a couple of weeks before. You’ll also be able to recall information easily.

And finally, good luck in your exams!