---
layout: blogpost
title:  "The Bus"
date:   2014-01-16
permalink: /blog/bus/
tags:
- blog
---

My bus usually arrives when it pleases. It never sticks to the schedule. So I wait in the bus shelter. The bus shelter which smells of urine, has empty bottles of beer, a burnt bin and a noticeboard on its last legs. *Lovely!*

The bus is quiet, cold and empty. Icicles hang from the ceiling,  and a breeze blows through the bus. The windows are open. The driver looks at me expressionless. The passengers watch me as I find my seat. They listen into my conversation. The bus makes it way around the route, stopping occasionally. I reach my destination with numb, white hands. I thank the bus driver.

The bus isn't always cold and quiet. In fact, it's often the opposite:

The bus pulls up, moderately full. Passengers pile on the bus, filling every seat. I get on the bus to be greeted yet again by an emotionless driver. The passengers continue to pile on. And on. And on. 

Until the driver says “stop!”. By then, people are packed onto the bus like a tin of sardines. Faces pressed against the windows. No room for movement. 

Don't even think about getting off, because you can't. ‘Cosy’ cannot even begin to describe these conditions on the bus.

If I get a seat, it's a lucky day. Because you really don't want to stand on these buses. You are thrown around, tripping and falling at every stop.

The bus will often stop and when the doors open, the build up of pressure is released and passengers spew out onto the pavement.

The sheer number of people on the bus heats up the bus, along with the heaters which are on full blast. I don't open the windows though, because I won't succeed. That's because the driver has just lined each window with superglue for his own enjoyment.

On a wet day, the windows steam up. There is only one solution to prevent this: turning the heating up to max. The bus is unbearable like this.

> “I feel like a dog dying in a hot car”

And then the bus hits busy traffic. It crawls down the busy road, stopping and starting. Inching forward until it just touches the bumper of the car in front.

After rush hour, the bus is quiet again. There still are lots of passengers, but nobody is standing. This is the awkward time. No eye contact. No talking. At this point, people are quick to grab their phone and earphones to listen to music. It's as though the bus has transformed into the Tube mid-journey.

These nightmarish bus journeys always make reaching my destination feel great.